# Solving-Skyscrapers-Puzzle

In this project, we proposed two methods to solve the skyscrapers puzzle based on Minizinc and Python (method1: using the visible matrix, and method2: using the table constraint). 

After cloning this project, you need to run the command line in our project directory (./Solving-Skyscrapers-Puzzle).

For running method 1 and 2:

Firstly, modify the corresponding '.dzn' file, complete the input data (existing grids and clues of the puzzle). Structed as followed:

existence = [|0,0,2,0,0,0|0,1,0,0,0,0|0,0,0,0,0,0|0,0,0,0,0,0|0,0,0,0,0,0|0,0,0,0,0,0|];
top = [1,2,2,3,2,4];
bottom = [6,3,3,2,1,2];
left = [1,2,2,2,3,5];
right = [3,2,2,4,1,2]; 

The first parameter is the existing grids, and the followed four parameters are clues on each side. 

For solving the puzzle, run the script by the command:

$ minizinc --solver Gecode Method1.mzn Method1.dzn

Or

$ minizinc --solver Gecode Method2.mzn Method2.dzn

The solution of the puzzle will be printed on the command line.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

In our project, we focus on solving the 6x6 skyscrapers puzzle. However, if you are interested in other sizes of the puzzle, you could modify the size of the puzzle through the third line of the corresponding ‘.mzn’ file.

But for method2, you will also complete the following things:

Firstly, generate tables through the python file, using: 

$ python create_tables.py max_height (e.g., python create_tables.py 6)

The 'max_height' is a parameter representing the max height of the skyscrapers. Then a file called 'tables.dzn' will be generated. You could either use this file as the input file or copy the tables generated by this file to the input file you created.

Next, modify the size of tables in 'Method2.mzn' (line 22 to 27) according to the output of the python script, add or delete tables if necessary. Then complete the input data (shown above, but different sizes). And finally, run the script to view the solution.
